The occupancy grid mapping algorithm implements
a binary base filter to estimate the occupancy value of each cell.
Initially, the algorithm takes the previous occupancy values of the cells,
the poses, and the measurements as parameters.
The occupancy grid map now loops through all the grid cells.
For each of the cells,
the algorithm tests if the cells are currently being sensed by the range finder sensors.
To better understand this condition,
let's take a look at this example.
Here, you can see a mobile robot sensing the environment.
The cells that fall under the measurement cones are highlighted in white and black color.
While looping through all the cells,
the algorithm will consider
those white and black cells as
sets falling under the perceptual field of the measurements.
Now, the algorithm will update the cells that fall under
the measurement cones by computing
their new belief using the binary base filter algorithm.
As we've seen earlier in the binary base filter algorithm,
the new state of the cell is computed by adding
the previous belief to the inverse sensor model.
The inverse sensor model represents the log odd ratio of
the probability of the posterior map giving the measurements and the poses,
and subtracting the initial belief which is
the initial state of the map in its log odds form.
For the cells that do not fall under the measurement cone,
their occupancy value remains unchanged.
Now, the algorithm returns the updated occupancy values of the cells,
and another cycle of iteration starts.